Don't put your starter solar panels away--they're there because houses are expensive when you're importing power. Then build a couple businesses fairly quickly, as businesses raise the apartment spawn chance, and those produce more money per watt. But you have to build beginner businesses because if you build one with too high of a customer limit, it'll just shut down on its own after a few days.
Move the City Hall--it emits a land value increase effect in the surrounding area. It's also there to help you get started (as is the patch of high land value around the "network root node"--that road tile that connects you to the outside world). You can move most types of building--and it doesn't cost a thing. It's like magic! It might actually BE magic!
Long-tap/right-click on a building to see info about it. Power producers also show you info about the power network as a whole--here you can see the houses are pretty expensive to import power for. So you want to make a power producer of your own as soon as you can.
Collect your revenue from City Hall by tapping on the flunds icon. Then build a farm and connect it to a road ASAP. You can tap the top-left to see your current resources and resource limits--you need 10 wood to build the farm, and you are provided that wood at the start of the game. If you end up with more than your capacity, it automatically gets sold for you, and the profits go straight to the city's coffers (top bar).
You'll also find that if you don't have enough of a resource, the city will buy the resource automatically, and it displays the amount you're actually spending of each resource as you choose the building's placement location. However, there's a limit to the auto-purchases--the amount for sale on the market increases slowly day-by-day, and the market itself has a limit of 50 of each resource initially.
Your flunds can drop below zero if you're importing power or spending too much on city services. As long as you have a budget surplus, you can simply wait for City Hall to produce more flunds and collect them. If you don't, though, youc an lower the budget for one or more city services or remove some service buildings from the city temporarily to lower your expenses. While your residents will be unhappy and move out over time if you don't provide the desired city services, you can save a little money this way and use it to fix your budget issues--build more power producers if you're importing power, build more businesses if they're all at capacity, or build some factories and sell the resources they produce.
(I later created a cheap 'Corner Store' business to make it easier to earn money at this point in the tutorial.)
Before we get started, it's kind of hard to see the road that we're going to have to extend. First, check out the view menu by tapping the magnifying glass along the top of your screen. You may have to tap and drag the top bar around to find it if your screen is narrow. At the far right, you'll find a faded house icon, which lets you toggle visibility of buildings near the bottom of your screen. Tap that and scroll around to see how it feels. Then, long-tap the grove obstructing your view of the road, and select the bulldozer icon to spend a few flunds to demolish it.
You got some wood from that, which will come in handy later. One of the first things you'll need to build is a cement mill! The roads here are mostly concrete, and it's a bit expensive to import since it's so heavy. Once you build it, before it will start producing anything, you need to give it the resources to do its job. Open the resource panel if you haven't already, and click the button at the top-left (which I probably need to choose a different resource and building for it to be understandable). You'll see an arrow over the factory--click that to give it some resources!
You can also demolish homes for free to save some money--it might not be beneficial to do so later in the game, but at least at the beginning, the power import costs are too high for the houses to be self-sustaining. But they'll respawn shortly, because the small town looks pretty attractive to them.
Okay, let's build a quarry! Now we can mine some stone!
Quarries are nice to have as long as you have a need for stone--having one is like buying stone for a discount of 2 flunds each. It pays for itself after 50 stone.
The quarry can store a little bit of stone, so you can use that cement mill you built. For more storage, you would need to build a Warehouse, but let's hold off on that for now.
Finally, we have some stone! NOW provision those resources to the cement mill, and watch it produce concrete! Note: you'll have to click the X or the same button in the resources bar again to exit provisioning mode and see your collectible resources. 
Long-tapping/right-clicking the building to view its information as we did earlier, we can double-check how much the cement mill has in stock.
This concrete will serve us well for constructing roads, power plants, city service buildings, and so on. You can also set a limit on how much you want to keep in storage and sell the rest--simply go into and drag the auto-sell sliders from the far right toward the left. Auto-selling can occur any time you collect resources, plus on a schedule four times a day.
Next, we need some iron. That mountain near our city hall is rife with the stuff. Select the iron mine from the industrial buildings list, and tap and drag it around the eastern foot of the mountain until you get a green checkbox, then place it there.
Now collect the iron it produced.
With iron, at long last, you can build a windmill, powerful enough to provide for 6 homes. It costs a fairly high amount of flunds for upkeep, though! Until you have a power deficit, it isn't worth keeping it connected. You can pack it up and put it away for later by long-tapping it and selecting the bottom icon.
Nearly every building has an upkeep cost. You can always long-tap a building in the construction bar to see its usual upkeep costs.
'Tis at this point in the process that you want to research Heat Pumps. This technology reduces the power usage of residences in particular, so each residence is a slightly higher net gain. Like most research, however, it does take a few days to reach its full effect once researched. Several other research items are locked behind Heat Pumps, and some may have requirements other than the direct costs as well. Take special note here: you should aim to unlock a second eco-friendly technology before your city reaches 1000 population for a title (titles are achievements that have bonus effects--this game has both city-level titles and player-level achievements).
As you continue to build, you'll definitely need more construction materials, especially wood. Find the Tree Farm in the agriculture section of the construction bar and construct one adjacent to one of your roads.
Remember the views bar? You'll want to use that to figure out what's making your citizens unhappy or what's keeping more from moving in. Citizens like land value, luxury, safety, business accessibility, service coverage, and so on, so there are views for each of these.
Towngardia is meant to be played over a long time period, so resources are only produced a few times a day, and you may not be able to construct a new building every day or two. This has been accelerated for demonstration purposes throughout the tutorial.
The game also features various minigames (not yet implemented), breaking up the monotony and allowing you to give yourself or your friends a little boost now and then.
To prevent addictive behavior, buildings can generally hold five days worth of ingredients and products, and your minigame allowance also increases each day until it reaches a limit after about five days.
Happy building, fellow Towngardian!